---
title: "Absurdity 02 - Modulus && Integer Division"
date: 2020-02-11
---

Not all mistakes are pretty and make you look like you were making an effort, eventhought you might have been.
The mistake I bring today is one I have some times and it shows how easy it is to be careless around somewhat easy and controlled operations.

So I had the following operation:

    int ans = numb % (numb / 10);
    
Here the values of numb are integers > 0 (this condition was imposed on the input values). 
And from my last post you might have noticed I was having a SIGFPE error on a C program. Which I thought would be a much harder to solve that it really was. 

Of course this would lead to an error. A very stupid one indeed. If the value of numb is < 10 I am always doing the modulus operation by 0. Thank you very much stupid brain of mine.

For the record all I wanted was to have the rightmost digit of numb and my intention was to do the modulus by the  number generated by removing the last digit of numb. But this is obviously and gravely wrong. What I really needed was to divided by the number generated by replacing the rightmost digit with zero. (For example: 12345 I would like to do the modulus with 12340, so I would get the number 5 as answer) And so:
    
    int ans = numb % ((numb / 10)*10);

The greatest ABSURD of this all is I started by having an arithmetic problem (very worrying) that evolved into discovering a tottaly wrong computation (what is going on??).

At least is solved. And for the future Modulus division and Integer division when mixed in the same operation must be doubled checked since for my brain they are not quite as trivial as they may seem.

#Absurdities #IamtheAbsurd


    
